Monday 2/5/2024 - Hari
I wrote Python scripts this weekend to get the nonprofit name and mission statement from each Guidestar profile website. The script works only up to a certain point because Guidestar uses what I believe to be anti-scraping measures from Cloudflare that restrict my program from getting their data. Also, one important note is that not all nonprofits actually provide a mission statement to the Guidestar profile.
This week, I will look into bypassing anti-scraping measures for Guidestar and start writing scripts to get mission statements from other websites. Options include searching the non-US nonprofits (like the Australia or UK ones). 
If I cannot web scrape from Guidestar, buying the data from them may be a good path too.
Dr. Price found an IRS database of tax-exempt organizations with EINs that will be very useful in future web-scraping scripts. I will focus on scraping data from Charity Navigator first, and I will also try to write a script to go to each actual nonprofit website and get the mission statement from the source.
https://www.irs.gov/charities-non-profits/exempt-organizations-business-master-file-extract-eo-bmf
This link above leads to a list of all nonprofit EINs and other useful data in spreadsheets.

Sunday 2/11/2024 - Hari
I figured out how to scrape without being blocked by the website's servers; I made my program slower so that I do not send too many requests at once and overload their servers. I am now able to scrape from GuideStar and Charity Navigator, but at a rate of only about 1 website/second. 
I have the 51 spreadsheets listing all tax-exempt organizations from the states and DC, and I chose to scrape the Wyoming nonprofits first with guidestar_scraper.py because it only has about 5500 nonprofits (5500 seconds = 1.5 hours). Important to note is that over 3K of the 5.5K nonprofits did not provide GuideStar with a mission statement. I am going to write another Python script to have Charity Navigator fill in any possible mission statement gaps.
Dr. Price suggests that many of the nonprofits with no mission statements will be smaller or inactive causes. 
He also suggests that I focus on getting data from states with less nonprofits, for now. Some states have over 200K charities (200K seconds = 50+ hours) and I cannot keep my computer on for that long to scrape all of that, I will look into bots, virtual machines, or other computers/options to run the script.